# Medical-Image-Classification


Pneumonia is a leading cause of death in both children and older individuals. Specifi- cally, pneumonia infects the alveoli, filling them with pus and fluid, thereby weakening the patient’s breathing. Patients with previous respiratory diseases, weakened immune systems, hospitalized infants, or older individuals on respirators are more prone to this disease, so making early and efficient diagnosis is essential for applying appropriate treatments.
In the present study, the problem of pneumonia detection will be addressed through the use of chest X-ray images. The development and evaluation of deep learning models based on convolutional neural networks to diagnose X-ray images into two categories: pneumonia and healthy, have been proposed. Image preprocessing was carried out to improve data quality and optimize model performance. Different network architectures were experimented with, including custom models and pretrained models using transfer learning techniques. A comparison will be made between all implemented models, and the most optimal one will be chosen considering various factors, with the most important being the models’ performance.
The result achieved in this study serves as an additional tool for medical diagnostic environments, offering support in decision-making and improving the efficiency of early pneumonia detection. This tool has always been implemented with the intent of supporting medical personnel to enhance the accuracy of medical diagnosis, never with the objective of replacing them.
